Claude Certified Architect - Foundations (CCA-F): ​
Frequently Asked Questions  
 
Target Persona & Prerequisites 
Who is the Claude Certified Architect (CCA-F) certification best suited for?  
This certification is intended for a technical audience. It's a ~301 level exam, 
designed for practitioners who have foundational knowledge and are ready to 
demonstrate deeper, applied expertise. 
What are the prerequisites for exam candidates? 
Completion of at least all 200-level courses in the attached course catalog, 
working familiarity with Agent SDK (there's not a course for this in our platform 
yet), and having built solutions with Claude Code, Agent SDK, Anthropic API, 
and MCP. 
Studying for, and registering for the Practice and Certification Exams 
I just want to take the Certification Exam now, how may I do that? 
You will be able to access the exam in the Anthropic Academy after logging in 
with your partner-associated email address at 
https://anthropic.skilljar.com/claude-certified-architect-foundations-certification via 
the standard login or 
https://anthropic-partners.skilljar.com/claude-certified-architect-foundations-certifi
cation using the Partner Academy SSO login if you have that set up. Until then, 
please read on. 
What are the basics? 
Before attempting the Practice and especially the Certification Exams, we strongly 
suggest that you: 
●​ Get very familiar with the Claude Certified Architect – Foundations Certification 
Exam Guide. It contains all the things you need to know about the exam, such as 
the scenarios that will appear on the exam, the domains and skill areas, 
preparation exercise ideas, and the types of questions you’ll encounter on the 
Practice and Certification Exams. This step is very important to your success. 
Unless you are already very familiar and have practice with Claude Code, 
Agent SDK, the Claude API, and Model Context Protocol, skipping this step 
will likely result in you not passing the Certification Exam.  
●​ Take the Practice Exam and get a passing score of greater than 900/1000. If you 
get a score of 900 on the Practice Exam, you’ll have a very very good sense of 
whether you’ll successfully pass the Certification Exam, which will have a 
passing score of 720.
 
How do I access the Practice Examination and the Exam Study Guide? 
The practice exam and study guide are administered through Anthropic Academy and 
are currently only available to our partners. You’ll need to create an account with your 
partner-associated email address in order to access the materials.  
I’m getting an account already exists error 
If an account with your email address already exists, it’s possible that an account was 
created on your behalf during our beta period. In that case, please follow the password 
reset instructions below to access your account.  
1.​ Visit 
https://accounts.skilljar.com/accounts/profile/password/reset/?t=3gufixqhei80k&d=ca
hl60vup5xv. You will see the following screen:
 
2.​ Enter the Email Address to which we sent this email. 
3.​ Select Reset My Password. 
4.​ If you’ve successfully entered your email, you will see a confirmation screen:​
 
5.​ Check your inbox, and be sure to double check your spam folder. You will receive 
an email from academy-support@mail.anthropic.com that takes you to a page that 
looks like this:​
 
6.​ Set a New Password. 
7.​ Enter your New Password again for confirmation. 
8.​ Select Change Password. 
9.​ You will then be on the home page:​
 
10.​Choose Sign In in the top right hand corner. 
11.​Sign in with your account credentials. 
12.​Visit the following link to access the Practice 
Exam:https://anthropic.skilljar.com/anthropic-certification-practice-exam 
Partner Impact 
Will this certification have an impact on my Anthropic partner standing? 
No, this certification will not impact your partner standing. The CCA-F certification 
will be available to the general public, but is currently being offered exclusively to 
partners. While this certification will hold weight in terms of Claude expertise in 
the market, it will not directly impact your standing in Anthropic’s partner 
program. Partner-specific certifications that align to the program will be available 
later this year. Stay tuned! 
How is the Certification connected to the upcoming Forward Deployed Engineer 
(FDE) Black Belt level certification?  
Details are to be determined, but for those folks who pass the exam, they may be 
the first of our potential future Black Belt FDEs, and Claude Champions. 
Logistics 
Will this exam be proctored?  
Yes, we partnered with ProctorFree for exam proctoring. 
How many certification attempts are permitted? 
One attempt. 
Is there a cost associated with the certification? 
The exam costs $99. Some participants may have a promo code through their 
partner organization. 
If I pass, do I get a badge? 
Yes! Practitioners who complete the certification during will receive a CCA-F 
badge that is shareable on LinkedIn. 
 
 
Do you have additional questions that were not covered here? 
Email Anthropic Education Support at academy-support@mail.anthropic.com 
 
 
